---
title: Home Remodeling FAQs
permalink: "/faqs"
layout: default
section_id: faqs
featured-image: 
excerpt: Murray Lampert answers to commonly asked questions about home improvement,
  kitchen remodeling, interior design, and more. Learn with us today!
---

## Murray Lampert Helps Answer Common Home Improvement Questions

**What types of construction projects does Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel undertake?**
We specialize in residential remodeling and construction. The type of projects we handle are:
- [Second Story Additions](/san-diego-second-story-addition)
- [Room Additions](/san-diego-room-additions)
- [Home Remodels](/san-diego-remodel-services)
- [Kitchen Remodels](/san-diego-kitchen-remodeling)
- [Total Home Renovations](/major-renovations)

Our company **does not** do any new home building, commercial building, tenant improvement, apartments or condos.

**Does Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel charge for estimates?**
Other than our design retainer, there is no upfront charge unless there are structural issues requiring an independent consultant. [Contact us](#quick-contact) for more information or to request an estimate today.</a>

**Who handles the design and architectural work?**
At Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel, we have our own in-house [home design department](/san-diego-home-design-services). All plans are generated by our state-of-the-art computer CAD software and we secure the necessary building permits as part of your home renovation and/or remodel project. Read more about our [home design-build packages](/san-diego-design-build-contractors).

**How is my project supervised?**
[Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel](/) has an in-house production department with a staff of project managers. Your personal Project Manger is responsible for scheduling the trades and materials, meeting the building inspectors, quality control and completing the final punch list.

**Does someone need to be home during the day when we are under construction?**
No. We install a lock box on site so our craftsmen can come and go as necessary.

**Do you require a down payment?**
We do not take down payments on our home improvement contract. Rather, a progress payment schedule is part of our agreement. Payments are made in stages as your remodel or renovation project reaches critical milestones.

**How long will it take to complete my home remodel or home renovation project?**
Every job is unique, so timing is based on the scope of work. As a general rule:
- **Second stories** take a minimum of 120 working days
- **Room additions** take 80 - 100 working days
- **Kitchens** take 50 - 75 working days
- **Total home renovations** take 125 - 150 working days

The time frame in which your project will be completed is in writing on our contract, and is based on when commencement begins after the building permit is secured.

**What is your warranty?**
We provide an exclusive [5-year written warranty](/uploads/MLDBRWarranty.pdf) on workmanship and materials. Any fixtures or products provided or installed by Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel or the homeowner carry their own manufacturer's warranty and are not covered under the 5-year guarantee.

**How long has Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel been in business?**
We have been improving San Diego Homes since 1975, when Murray Lampert founded the company. It is now owned and managed by Gregg Cantor, Murray Lampert's grandson. Read more [about us here](/about-murray-lampert-design-build-remodel).

<div class='two spacing'></div>
