---
layout: post
title: Home Build
date: '2017-06-20T00:00:16+00:00'
permalink: http://murraylampert.com/home-build/
---
<h2>San Diego Custom Home Builders</h2>
As part of our Design/Build strategy, our <a href="http://murraylampert.com">San Diego custom home building service</a> completes the construction of your home remodeling in a cost effective manner. As a licensed and insured contractor, we employ expert craftspeople and use only the best materials as a part of our home builder service. This ensures that your home renovation is completed professionally and efficiently. As a full service contractor, our San Diego home construction services specialize in second stories, single story expansions, kitchens, baths, room additions, and complete home renovations. What separates us from other contractors is that our custom home builder services include a project manager to supervise the work from beginning to end. That means that during the course of each project, our custom home builders are consistently supervised to make sure that your project is completed on schedule, on budget, and as promised. Murray Lampert has been doing custom home building since 1975, and has transformed thousands of homes throughout San Diego. Along with home building, we are also building relationships with San Diego homeowners to become one of the most trusted home builders in San Diego. Known for our quality craftsmanship, affordable prices, and timely completion, it’s likely that you know someone in either your neighborhood or even your own family that has experienced the benefits of a Murray Lampert home remodel project. So if you’re interested in a home renovation, contact Murray Lampert to find out what we can do for you. Thousands of happy homeowners have experienced the ease and convenience of Murray Lampert Design, Build, Remodel since 1975, and now you can experience the great service that our many customers have come to love.
<blockquote style="width: 100%;">I contacted 4 top contractors in San Diego area to do our construction project. After their presentation of their plan, Murray Lampert stood the best especially the cost of the project. The quality of the work, cost and early completion of the project makes us happy of the right decision that we made why we choose Murray Lampert among other contractors. The Murray Lampert team are very good communicators. We are always informed every phase of the project. We were given an opportunity to upgrade or change the materials was put into the project. We received a lot of positive compliments the quality and workmanship of the project.
<span class="author">–SPRING VALLEY – STAN &amp; GEMMA</span></blockquote>
&nbsp;
