---
title: 10 Tips for Buying Your First Home
date: 2010-11-23 06:00:09 Z
permalink: "/10-tips-for-buying-your-first-home/"
layout: post
---

)
<ol>
	<li><strong>Learn  From Experience</strong>: Go out and talk to other people who recently purchased a  home for the first time. They now have hindsight on what they did right, could  have done better, and shouldn’t have done. They might not be a professional,  but at least they went through a very similar experience recently, which is  especially important during these difficult economic times.</li>
	<li><strong>Attend a  Home Buyer Seminar</strong>: There is a seminar for everything in today’s world,  including a first time home buying seminar, probably close to where you live.  You can normally find a free seminar put on by a local non-profit or your city  that will help you learn what is involved in buying a home and what mistakes to  watch out for. You are much more likely to find that perfect home if you are an  educated buyer, so study hard.</li>
	<li><strong>Making a  Budget</strong>: You probably have already done a basic review of your finances if  you are thinking of buying a home, but you really need to be honest with  yourself when it comes to what type of house you can actually afford. Try and  get pre-qualified for a home loan from your bank so you know in advance what  type of money you can spend on a home. Don’t forget to take into consideration  a 20% down payment and the monthly mortgage payment before you make any offers.  There are several other costs of owning a home besides the monthly mortgage  payment. Plan into your budget expenses such as utilities, heat, property  taxes, repairs, insurance, landscaping, etc. A good way to judge the overall  costs is by examining the previous owner’s actual monthly expenses. You don’t  want to realize after the fact that you can’t afford the home you are living  in.</li>
	<li><strong>Additional  Costs</strong>: Most home buyers forget about the extra costs involved in searching  for and buying a house. Aside from the down payment, you will probably  encounter costs such as a home inspection fee, loan origination fee, prepaid  interest, application fees, appraisal fee, survey, title search and title  insurance, first months homeowner’s insurance, recording fees, and attorney  fees. Depending on the city, you may also need to pay transfer taxes. It is a  good idea to count on fees adding an additional 3 to 8 percent to the total  purchase price.</li>
	<li><strong>Keep Your  Options Open</strong>: It can be extremely beneficial to buy a home that is in your  budget, but not ideal because you can find remodelers to do the work for you!  If you are willing to wait a little longer for your perfect home, you can save  a bundle by buying small and renovating big. In the end, you’ll get exactly the  home you were hoping for, it just might take a little bit longer!</li>
	<li><strong>Pick the  right city</strong>: A lot of people forget to think about the advantages of owning  in one city over another. Almost every city is in a financial crisis right now,  but several show promise in the long term that will pay off for homeowners.  Several cities that look good for first time home buyers right now are Los  Angeles, San Diego, Denver, Boston, and Phoenix.</li>
	<li><strong>Choose a  Neighborhood</strong>: Simply picking a good city doesn’t help narrow down exactly  where you want to live. Each of those cities above has bad neighborhoods that  you want to steer clear of. When deciding on what is important to you in a  community, take into consideration crime rates, taxes, mass transportation or  access to freeways, schools, and local zoning laws.</li>
	<li><strong>Hire a  Real Estate Agent</strong>: First time home buyers often are confused with the  entire process and don’t know where to start. When you hire a professional, you  will have someone to not only hold your hand along the way but that will help  you find homes that fit your preferences. You can spend hours scouring the web  for homes by yourself, or let the agent send you a list of homes that are close  to what you are looking for. Another benefit of hiring an agent is that they  usually will have access to homes that have not yet hit the market. In the end,  hiring an agent will save you time, money, and your sanity.</li>
	<li><strong>Finding a  Home</strong>: Choosing the right city, neighborhood, and then a home is a long process  that shouldn’t be taken lightly. Either work on your own or with a realtor and  tour several homes at a time. You will start to figure out what is important to  you, what you like in a home, and the neighborhood that works best for you.  Once people have made a decision to buy a home, they usually spend 8 weeks  looking around and doing research to find where they want to live and what they  are looking for. Then after they have narrowed it down, it usually only takes a  few home tours before they find that perfect first home.</li>
	<li><strong>First  Time Home Buyer Assistance Programs</strong>: The weak economy is helped every time  someone purchases their first home. Many local and national programs are  available to help and motivate people into taking that step. As long as you  qualify, you may be offered lower interest rate loans, low down payment  options, and down payment assistance. Even people without perfect credit still  have access to the Federal Housing Administration’s loan program that offers  lower down payments.</li>
</ol>
